---
id: faastjs.log
title: log variable
hide_title: true
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[faastjs](./faastjs.md) &gt; [log](./faastjs.log.md)

## log variable

Faast.js loggers.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
log: {
    info: debug.Debugger;
    warn: debug.Debugger;
    gc: debug.Debugger;
    leaks: debug.Debugger;
    calls: debug.Debugger;
    webpack: debug.Debugger;
    provider: debug.Debugger;
    awssdk: debug.Debugger;
}
```

## Remarks

Unless otherwise specified, each log is disabled by default unless the value of the DEBUG environment variable is set to the corresponding value. For example:

```
  $ DEBUG=faast:info,faast:provider <cmd>
  $ DEBUG=faast:* <cmd>

```
Logs can also be enabled or disabled programmatically:

```typescript
import { log } from "faastjs"
log.info.enabled = true;
log.provider.enabled = true;

```
Each log outputs specific information:

`info` - General informational logging.

`warn` - Warnings. Enabled by default.

`gc` - Garbage collection verbose logging.

`leaks` - Memory leak detector warnings for the cloud function. Enabled by default.

`calls` - Verbose logging of each faast.js enabled function invocation.

`webpack` - Verbose logging from webpack and packaging details.

`provider` - Verbose logging of each interaction between faast.js runtime and the provider-specific implementation.

`awssdk` - Verbose logging of AWS SDK. This can be useful for identifying which API calls are failing, retrying, or encountering rate limits.

`retry` - Verbose logging of retry attempts in both SDK and invocations. This can be useful for identifying transient errors in the testsuite, or for understanding why calls are invoked multiple times. Currently this only logs retries from the faast runtime itself (i.e. high level retries) and google cloud. AWS provider-level retries are not logged.
